.. _Add Content Experiments to Your Course:

#########################################
Add Content Experiments to Your Course
#########################################

This section provides instructions for adding content experiments to your
course.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1

********************************************
Before Adding Content Experiments
********************************************

Before you add content experiments to your course, ensure that you have
completed the following tasks.

* :ref:`Enable Content Experiments`
* :ref:`Set up Group Configurations in edX Studio`

.. _Add a Content Experiment in Studio:

********************************************
Add a Content Experiment in Studio
********************************************

You can add a content experiment in a unit or container page. In Studio, you
create and view content for all groups in the content experiment in a
container page for the experiment, as shown in :ref:`Create Content for
Content Experiment Groups`.

When a learner views a unit with the content experiment, she has no indication
there is a content experiment in the unit, and the content experiment display
name is not shown. She sees only the content that you configure for the group
she is assigned to. To the learner, the unit with the content experiment is no
different than any other unit.

To configure a content experiment in Studio, you perform the following tasks.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1


After you configure a content experiment, you can change its group
configuration. For more information, see :ref:`Change Group Configuration for
a Content Experiment`.

You can move a content experiment from its current location to a different
location in the course outline. For information, see :ref:`Reorganizing
Components`.


.. _Create a Content Experiment:

===============================
Create a Content Experiment
===============================

.. note::

   Do not create new content experiments by duplicating configured content
   experiments. Duplicating content experiments after you have configured them
   is not supported.

#. On the unit page, under **Add New Component**, select **Advanced**.

#. Select **Content Experiment**.

   A new content experiment is added to the unit.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/content_experiment_block.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: An image showing the content experiment component in a unit page in
        Studio.

   The content experiment includes a container for each group that is defined
   in the group configuration you selected. You create content for each
   experiment group as you do any other component. For more information, see
   :ref:`Developing Course Components`.

#. Select either **Select a Group Configuration** or **Edit** to open the
   content experiment component.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/content_experiment_editor.png
    :alt: An image of the content experiment editor in Studio.
    :width: 600

#. For **Group Configuration**, select a group configuration.

#. In the **Display Name** field, enter the name of the component. The display
   name is only used in Studio; learners do not see this value.

#. Select **Save**.

The content experiment is displayed as a component that contains other
components. For more information, see :ref:`Components that Contain Other
Components`.

You can now create content for the groups in the experiment.


.. _Create Content for Content Experiment Groups:

=====================================================
Create Content for Groups in the Content Experiment
=====================================================

After you select a group configuration, in the content experiment component,
select **View**.

The content experiment page that opens automatically includes a container for
each group that is defined in the group configuration you selected. For
example, if you select a group configuration that defines two groups, Group A
and Group B, you see the following page.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/content_experiment_container.png
 :alt: An image of the content experiment page in Studio, with two groups.
 :width: 600

You add content for both groups as needed, just as you would add content to
any container page. For more information, see :ref:`Components that Contain
Other Components`.

For example, you can add a Text component and a video to Group A.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/a_b_test_child_expanded.png
 :alt: An image of an expanded content experiment component with an HTML and
     video component.
 :width: 600

.. note::   It is valid, and can be useful, to have no content for a group in
   a content experiment. For example, if one group has a video and another
   group has no content, you can analyze the effect of the video on learner
   performance.


.. _Change Group Configuration for a Content Experiment:

========================================================
Change the Group Configuration for a Content Experiment
========================================================

You can change the group configuration for a content experiment. When you
change the group configuration, you edit the content for any additional groups
in the group configuration. You can use the components from the previous
groups, as well as create new components.

.. warning::   Changing the group configuration of a learner-visible content
   experiment will affect the experiment data.

#. Open the unit that contains the content experiment.

#. In the content experiment component, select **Edit**.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/content_experiment_editor_group2.png
    :alt: An image of the content experiment editor in Studio, with a group
        configuration selected.
    :width: 600

#. Select a different group configuration.

#. Select **Save**.

#. You must now add components to the new groups in the experiment. Select
   **View** to open the content experiment.

   You see that groups for the new configuration are empty, and any components
   that you had added to groups in the previous configuration are now moved to
   a section called **Inactive Groups**.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/inactive_groups.png
    :alt: An image of a content experiment in Studio, with components in an
        inactive group.
    :width: 600

#. Drag and drop components from the **Inactive Groups** section into the new
   groups. You can also create new components in the new groups.

.. import OLX-content experiment doc that's shared in OLX guide.

.. include:: ../../../../shared/course_features/content_experiments/subsection_content_experiments_OLX.rst
